Next JS

Implements react components to client and server components. Default option is server components. Need to define client components specifically.

To create a NextJS project
--> npx create-next-app@latest
Give a project name
TypeScript Yes
ESLint Yes
Tailwind CSS Yes
'src/directory' No
App Router Yes
Turbopack Yes
import alias No

To run the project
--> npm run dev

NextJS provides static routing. A file based routing system.
Create a folder named 'about' then create new page.tsx file within it.
Now go to the browser and type http://localhost:3000/about. This will automatically go to the about page.

But dynamic routing is still needed. Ex: for viewing user profiles. /users/user-1, users/user-2 etc.

** layout.tsx acts as the parent of all the routes. So can add common components here such as nav bars, headers and footers.

Adding directories within parenthesis (directory) allows to have different layouts for different directories. It is called route groups. Move the home page to (root) directory. And add a new layout.tsx file in it too.

error.tsx files - Copy the code from Next.js documentation. Can add error.tsx files separately into directories or add a global-error.tsx file in the app root folder. If there are multiple error files, it will prioritize the one in the same directory.


loading.tsx - for people with slower connection, can add a loading file (with a spinner etc.) to show while loading. Add the file to the app root folder.

Next.js provides server side rendering which is beneficial for better SEO.

Time based revalidation is recommended for server side rendering. The entire page will be refreshed. See documentation.
export const revalidate = 3600 // seconds
Second option is to revalidate the request after some time. It will work only on the specified data segments.
Third option is on-demand validation.
** Put revalidate time = 0 for real time sites.
Partial Prerendering is good for when there is both static and dynamic components. (still on experimental level)